Geography
=========
Maga is an island chain spanning a tremendous area; nobody is certain exactly how large it is, and many pockets are isolated from the major islands. The islands generally have a tropical climate, although the flora and fauna varies somewhat between subregions. The various subregions vary in the length and severity of their wet and dry seasons. The largest island of Magathos is a single large mountain, which is tall enough to be snow-capped. As a result of the difference of elevation, this island has alpine grasslands, forests, and tundra. There are other islands in Maga that are tall enough to be snow-capped, but none as tremendous as Magathos.

The Isles of Maga are in the Sunbound Ocean, far away from any mainland continent, although some exist. Historically there has been trade with the closest mainland in the west, called Honstrad, but in recent history travel has been cut off.

All of Maga is governed by the Modern Republic since the start of the Second Era. The Modern Republic has a president as head of state. The representatives are chosen by the Electorate, who are the descendants of the revolutionaries who violently overthrew the Elven Kingdoms that preceded the Republic. The majority of the Electorate are Dwarves, with a significant minority of Humans and Halflings. Elves represent a very small minority of the Electorate; less than 1% are Elves, who are the descendants of those Elves that rebelled against their own kingdom. None of the beast races (Lacertines, Felidines, Corvidines, and Vespertines) have any members in the Electorate. As of 2E308, the president is Grulth Skullstone, an elderly Dwarf who personally participated in the establishing of the Republic in a minor role.

While all of Maga is claimed by the Republic, there are many pockets of resistance from many sources: demon worshippers, nativists, and monarchists are just a few examples. The Republic does not have total control of all the islands, and some could be said to technically have governments of their own. However, such locations will always be under constant threat from the Republic enforcing its sovereignty.

